# Day 10: Elves Look, Elves Say

Like most people, I suspect, I built a solution that essentially does exactly what the instructions say - parse the string and build up the next iteration. And for the puzzle input and number of iterations required, such a solution is absolutely feasible. For part 1, my solution takes about 30ms. About 50 ms for part 2 (which uses the same code). We got lucky on that one because if we needed to go even to 75, that starts to run into memory limitations (the string is about 3.5 billion characters long).

But what if he  _had_  opted for 75 (or more!)? Obviously, the brute force method is not going to work. And so this becomes one of those times when it might be _really_ useful to look at links Eric sometimes includes in the puzzle descriptions.

In there is a link to the problem, that he even uses in the title - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Look-and-say_sequence. Reading through this, there's a section on [cosmological decay](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Look-and-say_sequence#Cosmological_decay), and in there is a table that John Conway put together that shows how look-and-say with values of 1, 2, and 3 eventually repeat themselves. And, as it turns out, the puzzle input matches one of the elements. That means if you find the starting element, you can then just follow the decay splits and keep track of how many times each element appears in a particular iteration - no actual strings required! And it's fast, because it's basically linear, needing only a single pass through the hash map each iteration. 40 and 50 iterations take merely 1 ms. 75 takes 4 ms. 100 about 8. And the only memory in use amounts to a couple of hash maps with at most 92 items in each.

I only dug into this problem because of the following comment I saw on Reddit - https://www.reddit.com/r/adventofcode/comments/1qaha10/2015_day_10pythonc_look_and_say_from_blowing_up/. It's because of this that I dug into it and went about implementing it. Amazing stuff, and I guess I need to pay more attention to the potential hints in the puzzle descriptions.
